.\" Manpage for gethosts.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012
.\" Created by Jorge Morgado <jorge (at) morgado (dot) ch>
.\" Please contact the author to correct errors or typos.
.TH GETHOSTS 1 "21 Jan 2013" "1.3" "gethosts man page"
.SH NAME
gethosts
\- Print lists of hosts from the GLPI inventory database

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gethosts
[ \fB-dhv\fP ] [ \fB--case-sensitive\fP ] [ \fB--csv\fP ]
         [ \fB--no-sort\fP ] [ \fB-s\fP \fISEP\fP ] [ \fB--show-dups\fP ]
         [ \fB-l\fP \fIlistname\fP | \fB-f\fP \fIfieldname\fP ]
         [ \fB--domain\fP \fIDOMAIN\fP ]
         [ \fB--entity\fP \fIENTITY\fP ]
         [ \fB--gateway\fP \fIGATEWAY\fP ]
         [ \fB--group\fP \fIGROUP\fP ]
         [ \fB--host\fP \fIHOSTNAME\fP ]
         [ \fB--ip\fP \fIIP\fP ]
         [ \fB--mac\fP \fIMAC\fP ]
         [ \fB--model\fP \fIMODEL\fP ]
         [ \fB--netmask\fP \fINETMASK\fP ]
         [ \fB--osname\fP \fIOSNAME\fP ] [ \fB--osver\fP \fIOSVER\fP ]
         [ \fB--site\fP \fISITE\fP ]
         [ \fB--software\fP \fISWNAME\fP ]
         [ \fB--state\fP \fISTATE\fP ]
         [ \fB--subnet\fP \fISUBNET\fP ]
         [ \fB--techgroup\fP \fITGROUP\fP ] [ \fB--techuser\fP \fITUSER\fP ]
         [ \fB--type\fP \fITYPE\fP ]
         [ \fB--user\fP \fIUSER\fP ]
         [ \fB--vendor\fP \fIVENDOR\fP ]
         [ \fBexpression\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gethosts
is a command line tool to generate hosts lists from the GLPI inventory database.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --case-sensitive
Case sensite search (does not apply to expr filter).
.TP
.B --csv
Comma Separated Values output (overrides \fB-s\fP unless specified). If result has only one column, output will be displayed on a single line.
.TP
.B -d, --debug
Enable debug mode (developers only).
.TP
.B --domain DOMAIN
Host domain.
.TP
.B --entity ENTITY
Host platform (entity).
.TP
.B -f FIELDNAME
Field to display (multiple options are allowed). Values can be: \fIserial\fP, \fIuuid\fP, \fIosname\fP, \fIosver\fP, \fIsite\fP, \fIdomain\fP, \fImodel\fP, \fItype\fP, \fIvendor\fP, \fIstate\fP, \fIentity\fP, \fIuser\fP, \fIgroup\fP, \fItechuser\fP, \fItechgroup\fP, \fIsoftware\fP, \fIswver\fP, \fIifname\fP, \fImac\fP, \fIip\fP, \fInetmask\fP, \fIsubnet\fP, \fIgateway\fP.
.TP
.B --gateway GATEWAY
Host default gateway address.
.TP
.B --group GROUP
Host department (group).
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show this help message and exit.
.TP
.B --host HOSTNAME
Device hostname.
.TP
.B --ip IP
Host IP address.
.TP
.B -l LISTNAME
Show list by name. Values can be: \fIosname\fP, \fIosver\fP, \fIsite\fP, \fIdomain\fP, \fImodel\fP, \fItype\fP, \fIvendor\fP, \fIstate\fP, \fIentity\fP, \fIuser\fP, \fIgroup\fP, \fIsoftware\fP, \fIip\fP, \fImac\fP, \fInetmask\fP, \fIsubnet\fP, \fIgateway\fP.
.TP
.B --mac MAC
Host MAC address.
.TP
.B --model MODEL
Host hardware model.
.TP
.B --netmask NETMASK
Host netmask address.
.TP
.B --no-sort
Do not sort the result.
.TP
.B --osname OSNAME
Operating system name.
.TP
.B --osver OSVER
Operating system version.
.TP
.B -s SEP, --separator SEP
Output field separator (default is TAB).
.TP
.B --show-dups
Show duplicates in the resulut (if any).
.TP
.B --site SITE
Host location.
.TP
.B --software SWNAME
Software name.
.TP
.B --state STATE
Host state.
.TP
.B --subnet SUBNET
Host subnet address.
.TP
.B --techgroup TGROUP
Host technical department (group).
.TP
.B --techuser TUSER
Host technical owner (user).
.TP
.B --type TYPE
Host hardware type.
.TP
.B --user USER
Host owner (user).
.TP
.B -v, --version
Show program's version number and exit.
.TP
.B --vendor VENDOR
Host vendor (manufacturer).
.TP
.I expression
Filter criteria expression.
.B gethosts
uses a declarative language to express the search criteria (similar to the where clause in SQL). Parentheses can be used to arrange precedence on the expression.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs. Please send problems, bugs, questions, desirable enhancements, patches, etc. to:
.LP
.RS
jorge (at) morgado (dot) ch
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Jorge Morgado (jorge (at) morgado (dot) ch)
